Imagine yourself taking a relaxing stroll on a bright, sunny beach with pristine, white sand that melts away from your feet as you walk along. The cool waves lap at your feet as you inhale the salty ocean air when, suddenly, you step on a lump of plastic. Your peaceful reverie is ruined as you realize that the beach that you have been walking on is really covered in all kinds of trash, from plastic bags to discarded cigarettes, and the crash of the waves is drowned out by the buzz of flies. Trash pollution is becoming one of the most prevalent forms of pollution in the ocean and on the beach, and “About 7 million tons [of plastic] end up in the ocean each year, making up roughly 75% of all marine debris” (Schilling). This pollution can be observed on beaches all around the world, but one of the most adversely affected places are the islands of Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean. 
	The islands of Hawaii are located in the Pacific Ocean in between the US and Japan. They are known for their beaches and climate and are a very popular tourist destination. In 2014, “A record 8.3 million visitors came to Hawaii” and “Total visitor expenditures grew to $14.7 billion” (Ocean 1) making tourism the biggest industry in Hawaii. One of the most considerable threats to the industry, however, is the ever-increasing problem of pollution. Plastic pollution in particular dramatically diminishes the allure of Hawaii due to a buildup of trash on beaches and the death of wildlife. “Kamilo Beach on the Big Island in Hawaii, which has been dubbed the dirtiest beach in the world” (Prevent), is a particularly appropriate example of the effect of pollution on Hawaiian beaches. The beach is blanketed in trash, without even enough room to walk without stepping on some piece of garbage or another. Captain Charles Moore, a member of the Algalita Marine Research Foundation, reveals that most of the trash on the beach is not of Hawaiian origin, but rather from the “Pacific Rim”, the coasts that surround the Pacific Ocean including Japan, China, and the US. The trash is disposed of in the sea off the coast of the mainland and rides the currents all the way to the Hawaiian Islands because of the sheer quantity and the percentage of it that is plastic, which doesn’t decompose and instead breaks into smaller plastic pieces (BBC). 
Another prominent factor in the amount of trash on Hawaiian beaches is its location relative to currents. Hawaii is located near the edge of the Trash Vortex, “an area the size of Texas in the North Pacific in which an estimated six kilos of plastic for every kilo of natural plankton swirls slowly around like a clock” (Trash). This high concentration of trash near Hawaii causes not only cluttered beaches, but many wildlife deaths as well. Greenpeace reveals that “A turtle found dead in Hawaii had over a thousand pieces of plastic in its stomach and intestines” (Trash), and non-marine life such as birds are harmed by the excessive volume of plastic in the ocean as well as marine life of all kinds including turtles, dolphins, and fish. Greenpeace also emphasizes that “over a million seabirds and one hundred thousand marine mammals and sea turtles are killed each year by either eating or getting tangled in six-pack plastic can holders, and discarded netting, fishing lines and other bits of discarded plastic” (Trash). Another problem with plastics is that they act as a “chemical sponge” and absorb some of the worst chemicals in the ocean called “persistent bioaccumulative and toxic substances (PBTs)”, which are then eaten by animals (Rochman). Sea turtles are one of the most seriously damaged by the plastics because of their “downward facing spines in their throats which prevent the possibility of regurgitation. The plastics get trapped in their stomach, which prevents them from properly swallowing food” (Information). The already endangered species of turtles are now on the verge of extinction, and many experts are worried that future generations will not have any sea turtles at all (Walters). Plastic pollution is affecting wildlife all over the world, but one of the most surprising statistics is that turtles that died from plastic consumption are not more common in developed areas that produce more plastic than on the coasts of developing countries that use little to no plastic.
Plastic use on the mainland is not a deciding factor in the amount of trash and debris in the water off the coast. For example, one study found that “stranded turtles found adjacent to heavily populated New York City showed little or no evidence of debris ingestion, while all of the stranded turtles found near an undeveloped area of southern Brazil had eaten debris” (Crowley). Plastic in the ocean disperses from where it was thrown in, travels around the world, and may end up on the opposite side of the globe. Location, especially in terms of currents, is much more a factor in trash concentration the actual amount of trash that is dumped in the area. Plastic waste is a global problem created by all countries and affecting all countries. The US in particular is one of the biggest polluters, with very little regulation of trash disposal and a “throw-away” society of one use items, often plastic. The throw-away, one-use mentality started after World War II to keep up production and increase the economy, and continues into the present day. Some work is being done to decrease the amount of trash in the oceans such as beach cleanup, recycling, and restrictions on plastic and disposal, but many scientists believe that the only real solution is to attack the root of the problem, businesses.
All around the world, seaside towns and marine ecosystems are forced to deal with the unfortunate reality of plastic pollution even though it is usually not their doing, but rather caused by businesses and waste companies. The ocean is struggling for many reasons: global warming, struggling ecosystems, and pollution, but all of these are caused, at least in part, by inadequate disposal of plastic and waste. The ocean is one of our biggest and most beautiful natural resources, and plastic pollution is threatening both its aesthetic beauty and the selection of magnificent creatures within it. If we continue on our current path, not too long in the future, the ocean will no longer be a place of refuge and exploration, but rather a quagmire of trash, debris, and dead animals.
